# IoT Design aspects

IoT are special custom devices that need to manage the energy efficiency differently from standard market device. 
The devices are charaterized by:
- Low power
- Low cost
- Small
- Total autonomous

Each device is a full micro-system that embeds:
- Processor
- Memory
- Radio transceiver
- Battery powered or energy harvesting methods: depending on the specific scenario, both allows to avoid wired powered devices.

The energy efficiency based on battery-powered implies that the working life is limited in time: this need to intervene on the field to change the battery. This operation can be costly, respectively to the device cost itself.
Some other issues are *adaptability to changing conditions* that need for dynamic network management and programming, adapting its behavior as the environment change. This implies the neessity of dynamic programming to also preserve the interoperability. 
Another problem is that the devices comes in term of very low complexity and overhead, with reduced complexity of complexity execution and constrains on computation resources.
Another issues concerns multi-hop communication: standard routing protocols like Distance Vector or similar relies on address table but due to constrained capacity both in term of storage and computational resoures, those model does not scale in IoT context multi-hop network. 

This also introduce the problem of the mobility that need for dyamic routing protocols to scale efficiently, provided the underlying infrastructure.

